# Usefull functions :

pivot_longer : Use, if some of your column names are actually values of a variable. Alternatively you can use gather(), but it is recommended to use pivot_longer(), because the other function is no longer being maintained.

pivot_wider(): Use, if some of your observations are scattered across many rows. Alternatively you can use spread(), but it is recommended to use pivot_wider(), because the other function is no longer being maintained.

separate(): If some of your columns contain more than one value, use separate

unite(): use to paste together multiple columns into one

filter(): picks cases based on their values (formula based filtering).

slice(): for filtering with row numbers. So both can be used for selecting the relevant rows.

arrange(): changes the ordering of the rows. The NAs always end up at the end of the rearranged tibble.

select(): picks (or removes) variables based on their names.

starts_with() / ends_with(): helper that selects every column tht starts with a prefix or ends with a suffix

contains(): A select helper that selects any column containing a string of text.

everything(): a select() helper that selects every column that has not already been selected. Good for reordering.

rename(): changes the name of a column.

mutate(): adds new variables that are functions of existing variables and preserves existing ones.

transmute(): adds new variables and drops existing ones.

bind_cols(): and bind_rows(): binds two tibbles column-wise or row-wise.

group_by(): and summarize() reduces multiple values down to a single summary.

glimpse(): can be used to see the columns of the dataset and display some portion of the data with respect to each attribute that can fit on a single line. You can apply this function to get a glimpse of your dataset. It is similar to the base function str().

typeof(): to asses the data type or mode of an object.

Easy and fast parsing of date-times: ymd(), ymd_hms(), dmy(), dmy_hms, mdy(), …
Simple functions to get and set components of a date-time, such as year(), month(), mday(), hour(), minute() and second():

